In our picture, a smiling Prudence unlocks&nbsp;her family&#39;s new house. Behind her is her brother and sister Stanley, Prisca and the Limpopo MEC of Public Works&nbsp;Mr Jerry Ndou on the right.Date: 10 November 2016 By: Mbulaheni RidovhonaViewed: 545Christmas came early this year for the Maruli children.After losing their mother in 2009, life held very little joy for this child-headed family from Ha-Matsa Mulenga.Prudence (21), Primrose (19), Prisca (17) and their brother Stanley Maruli (15) have been living in dire conditions. At the beginning of November this changed when they received a brand new four-roomed house. &nbsp;Prudence said that the family is thrilled about their improved living conditions. &ldquo;At first we didn&#39;t think that their promise will come true, but we thank Mr Tseli and his team who built a house for us,&rdquo; said Prudence.On Saturday, 5 November, the house worth R210&nbsp;000 were handed over to them. The house consists of two bedrooms, a kitchen and lounge.Their new house became a reality due to the combined efforts of the Dzanani Parliamentary Constituency&rsquo;s Office and Limpopo businessmen. Furniture was also donated to the four children by the SABC Foundation, which included a television set a kitchen unit.The handing over ceremony was attended by several high-profile people including members of parliament, Messrs Joe Maswanganyi and Moses Tseli. &ldquo;These children have a passion for education. They motivated us a lot, that&#39;s why we built a house for them. We want them to be like other children,&rdquo; said Tseli at the ceremony.The 22-year-old Mbulaheni (Gary) Ridovhona has been passionate about journalism to the extent that he would buy himself a copy of weekly Univen students&#39; newsletter, Our Voice. After reading, he would write stories about his rural village, Mamvuka, and submit them to the very newsletter for publication. His deep-rooted love for words and writing saw him register for a Bachelor of Arts in Media Studies at the University of Venda, and joined the Limpopo Mirror team in February 2016 as a journalism intern.Email: More photos... Saturday, 5 November, will always be remembered by the Maruli-children. Due to the combined efforts of several businessmen and parliment they received a new house. Photographed during the ribbon cutting ceremony (from left to right) are Makhado Municipal Mayor Cllr&nbsp;Mildred Sinyosi, Mr Moses Tseli (member of parliament), Mrs Shonisani Tseli and Limpopo Public Works MEC, Mr Jerry Ndou.