Police rearrested one of the five suspects,&nbsp;Bruce H Hungwane (right).&nbsp;Date: 15 November 2016 By: Isabel VenterViewed: 2404*** UPDATE***The Musina Police have rearrested one the five suspects that escaped from their custody during the weekend.According to a provincial police spokesperson, Lt-Col Moatshe Ngoepe, Bruce H Hlungwane (26) was found hiding within the Musina policing area last night.Hlungwane, together with four other trial-awaiting prisoners, escaped from the police&rsquo;s holding cells on Saturday, 12 November. According to Ngoepe they removed bricks from the cell walls, then got to an outside lapa, where they then removed bricks from this wall and so got out of the police station yard and fled.&nbsp;The remaining four suspects are the 23-year-old Job Dlovu (arrested for murder), 21-year-old Samuel Lucky Tawanda Masotsha (arrested for robbery) and two 18-year-olds, respectively arrested for theft out of a motor vehicle and housebreaking and theft. They are still being hunted down by the police.Hlungwane will appear in the Messina Magistrate&rsquo;s Court later this week on a charge of escaping from lawful custody.Ngoepe said on Monday morning that the names or photos of the two 18-year-old suspects could not be released as they were still minors. &ldquo;We need to abide by the laws of the country,&rdquo; said Ngoepe.On Tuesday Ngoepe confirmed that the police have, however, decided to release their names and photos when it becomes available. He addmited that the police themselves were not sure which of the photographs released early in the week was which suspect. &quot;We gave the Musina police instruction to take clear photographs of the suspects as they get arrested, and will keep the media updated as the others get arrested as well,&quot; said Ngoepe.Anyone with information on the whereabouts of these escapees is requested to contact Brig James Espach on Tel 082 576 0743 or their nearest police station. Alternatively, the Crime Stop number can be called at 0860 01 0111 or the 24-hour crime line at 32211.Follow the&nbsp;Zoutpansberger/ Limpopo Mirror&nbsp;for the latest updates on this story.Isabel joined the Zoutpansberger and Limpopo Mirror in 2009 as a reporter. Her beat is mainly crime and court reporting. At present, she is studying for her BA Degree through the University of South Africa.Email: isabel@zoutnet.co.zaMore photos... John Job Dlovu (23).&nbsp;Photo: Limpopo SAPS Communications.