Date: 13 November 2016 By: Isabel VenterViewed: 100The Democratic Alliance (DA) welcomed the recent suspension of Makhado Municipality&rsquo;s manager, Mr Sakkie Mutshinyali.Following Mutshinyali&rsquo;s suspension, the local DA asked that the municipality should investigate all senior officials within the financial department. The DA say in a press release that they are of the opinion that Mutshinyali did not act alone in the alleged irregular appointments of service providers and illegal payments made to them.Mutshinyali was suspended on Thursday, 27 October, following a mandate that was carried out by Council&rsquo;s executive committee (Exco). He was placed under precautionary suspension for a term of 30 days, so that an independent investigator can prepare a report to be submitted to Council.The allegations levied against Mutshinyali include:* Financial misconduct by claiming and accepting payments for assistance in two relocations when he took up his position as municipal manager;* Illegally claiming for two cellphone lines;* Failing to implement financial delegations within the municipality;* The irregular appointment of a contractor to install energy-saving infrastructure without following the correct procedures;* Taking leave from work without providing valid reasons;* Authorising a payment of more than R400 000 to a contractor without Council&rsquo;s approval;* The irregular appointment of various service providers;* Failing to disclose to Council that he had been subpoenaed to provide documentation to the police&rsquo;s special investigation unit in cases that include fraud and corruption; and* Paying R4.6 million to a legal firm without the Council&rsquo;s approval.During a closed Council meeting this Tuesday, the DA presented their request for an investigation in writing to Council. &nbsp;They have also requested the MEC for Cooperative Governance, Makoma Makhurupetje, to commission a forensic audit into the municipality&rsquo;s financial affairs and take immediate action against corrupt officials within the municipality.This is not the only municipality the DA is asking to be scrutinized. Last Friday, the DA submitted a Promotion of Access to Information Act&nbsp;application to request that a report into the maladministration and corruption within the Bela Bela Municipality be released. The investigation was finalised in May this year by the company KPMG. Their findings, the DA claims, are kept hidden by the ANC administration of the municipality. &ldquo;The report was paid for by public funds and should therefore be made available. The council is, however, being pressured not to reveal the report because it is believed that several senior ANC officials are implicated in corrupt activities,&rdquo; says&nbsp;the DA in a press release.Isabel joined the Zoutpansberger and Limpopo Mirror in 2009 as a reporter. Her beat is mainly crime and court reporting. At present, she is studying for her BA Degree through the University of South Africa.Email: isabel@zoutnet.co.zaMore photos... 