To go with articleDate: 03 December 2016 By: Andries van ZylViewed: 51Two weeks ago, the Louis Trichardt SPCA received the amazing news that their application to the National Lotteries Commission (NLC) had been approved and that they would be receiving much-needed funding for certain crucial expenses and projects planned for the local SPCA and their animals.The NLC approved several grants for the SPCA. These grants are project-specific and may only be used as specified. In this regard, R310&nbsp;000 was allocated towards a new vehicle for the SPCA, while R100&nbsp;000 will go towards the salaries of the NSPCA inspector and kennel staff. A further R47&nbsp;000 was allocated towards the SPCA&rsquo;s fuel bill, with the local SPCA having to cover such a vast area.But what is the NLC?The NLC relies&nbsp;on funds from the proceeds of the National Lottery, and the Lotteries Act guides the way in which NLC funding may be allocated. NLC funding is intended to make a difference in the lives of all South Africans, especially those more vulnerable, and to improve the sustainability of the beneficiary organisations. Available funds are distributed to registered and qualifying non-profit organisations in the fields of charities,&nbsp;arts, culture and national heritage,&nbsp;and sport and recreation. By placing emphasis on areas of greatest need and potential, the NLC contributes to South Africa&rsquo;s development.&ldquo;All of the above-mentioned expenses play an integral part in the running of the SPCA and assures us that we can keep helping the animals in our community and the whole of the Vhembe area and that we can do even more in the year to come,&rdquo; said the Louis Trichardt SPCA&rsquo;s Alicia Thomas. She thanked the NLC for this amazing contribution and that they had&nbsp;entrusted them with this funding. &ldquo;Having these necessities funded and taken care of also affords us the opportunity to focus on other priorities and to budget for&nbsp;other extremely important projects, such as outreaches or sterilisation campaigns and to help us get to the animals and cruelty that is out there,&rdquo; said Alicia.Alicia, on behalf of the SPCA, also thanked the lottery players whose participation in the national lottery help&nbsp;fund animal welfare and so many other worthy causes. &quot;Then, a huge thank you to Bridge Ford Louis Trichardt for their assistance with the purchasing of our new vehicle. &nbsp;Also thank you to everyone involved in helping to convert the vehicle to our specific needs. This, among others, entailed fitting a specialised canopy. Thank you also for&nbsp;our community&rsquo;s continuous support, not only financially, but also your compassion and caring towards the animals in our area. Without you, we would never be able to get to the animals that truly need our help and to care for those that are in our care,&rdquo; said Alicia.For more information, visit the NLC website at www.nlsca.org.zaAndries joined the Zoutpansberger&nbsp;and Limpopo Mirror in April 1993 as a darkroom assistant. Within a couple of months he moved over to the production side of the newspaper and eventually doubled as a reporter. In 1995 he left the newspaper group and travelled overseas for a couple of months. In 1996, Andries rejoined the Zoutpansberger as a reporter. In August 2002, he was appointed as News Editor of the Zoutpansberger, a position he holds until today.Email: andries@zoutnet.co.zaMore photos... The Louis Trichardt SPCA was able to acquire a new vehicle through a grant by the National Lotteries Commission. Handing over the keys to local SPCA inspector Lawrence Khodobo (right) is Bridge Ford salesman PJ Stipec (left). Bridge Ford assisted in the purchase of the vehicle. Photo supplied.