Four people passed away near Matoks on the N1 north on Saturday evening, following a head-on collision between an Intercity Bus and a small truck.&nbsp;Photo supplied.Date: 12 December 2016 By: Isabel VenterViewed: 1011Local rescue workers had a terrible time last&nbsp;weekend, having had to attend to several gruesome accidents ahead of the busy festive season.Traditionally, road fatalities increase closer to Christmas as more and more motorists head out to their holiday destinations.As a prelude to the weekend&rsquo;s carnage on the roads, two people were seriously injured when the truck they were travelling in overturned near the Witvlag turnoff along the N1 north. Shortly after this accident, rescue workers had to tend to another accident along the N1 south, near the Kennington Lodge. One person was seriously injured in a head-on collision. &nbsp;The following day, on Friday, the driver of a Toyota bakkie sustained minor injuries after he lost control and his bakkie veered off the road.&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;On Saturday, a family of three and their friend perished in a horrific accident. According to a statement issued by the Limpopo police spokesperson, Lt Col, Moatshe Ngoepe, the four people died after the sedan they were travelling in collided head-on with a truck. The accident occurred on the N1 north, near the Musekene area. Mr Shumani Mavhunga (35) and his daughter Rachel (9), wife Musiiwa (29) and friend Aluwani Nemudzivhadi (23) of Matanda died in the accident. Another passenger, Innocent Mavhunga (12), is still receiving treatment in Louis Trichardt Memorial Hospital. The driver of the truck escaped unharmed. &nbsp;The road carnage continued on Sunday when another person passed away as a result of a vehicle accident near Kutama.On Monday, rescue workers found no rest&nbsp;as they were called out&nbsp;to the scene of yet another accident along the N1 south, near the Adam&#39;s Apple Hotel. Three people were seriously injured, following yet another head-on collision between two vehicles.Two more accidents were reported, one near the Witvlag turn-off (N1 north) and another close to the Piesanghoek turnoff on the Levubu road&nbsp;during the course of Monday. These were, however, minor incidents with no reported injuries.On Tuesday, three serious accidents were reported. The first took place early in the morning in the Tshiozwi district, when a taxi overturned and seven people were injured.&nbsp;The second accident occurred along the Elim/Giyani road near Tshawani. Two sedans were involved in a crash, resulting in both drivers&#39; sustaining&nbsp;minor injuries. The last accident for Tuesday was reported along the Vivo road. The&nbsp;male driver of a Toyota Hilux bakkie was seriously injured when he lost control of his vehicle and it overturned.Not only local roads saw an increase in serious accidents.&nbsp;Including the fatalities reported locally over the weekend, the total death toll for the past weekend on Limpopo&#39;s roads came to 26.Three people, aged between 30 and 40 years old, were killed after a minibus taxi conveying 15 passengers and a diesel tanker collided on the N1 North along the Landdros Mar&eacute; bypass on Saturday at around 21:00.Another four people passed away near Matoks on the N1 north the same night, following a head-on collision between an Intercity Bus and a small truck. The driver and four passengers inside the truck were killed instantly.In the Roedtan area, a minibus taxi transporting 16 passengers overturned, killing three people instantly on Sunday morning. The taxi, travelling from the direction of Modimolle, overturned about 3km from the Rathoke Weigh&nbsp;Bridge. Three female passengers were killed and the driver of the taxi was certified dead on arrival at the hospital.On Sunday evening, another 11 people were killed after a sedan collided with a truck on the N1 south near the Nyl Toll Plaza. Ten people were killed when both vehicles burst into flames. Another one passed away at a local hospital.&nbsp;Isabel joined the Zoutpansberger and Limpopo Mirror in 2009 as a reporter. She holds a BA Degree in Communication Sciences from the University of South Africa. Her beat is mainly crime and court reporting.Email: isabel@zoutnet.co.zaMore photos... Three people, aged between 30 and 40 years old, were killed after a minibus taxi conveying 15 passengers and a diesel tanker collided on the N1 north, near Polokwane Saturday evening.&nbsp;Photo supplied.