Air Force Base (AFB) Makhado recently took centre stage during the Africa Aerospace and Defence Show held at AFB Waterkloof from 18 to 20 September. The 2V1 formation demonstrated by two Gripens and one Hawk from 2 Squadron and 85 Combat Flying School (CFS) at AFB Makhado attracted thousands of young and old aviators. The 2V1 formation is a simulation that consists of two own-forces fighter planes versus one enemy aircraft. The simulation was led by the officer commanding of 2 Squadron, Lt Col Musa Mbhokota, 2 Squadron air warfare Capt Geoffrey Cooper and the operational officer of 85 CFS, Lt Col Lancelot Mathebula. It started with a sequence where the enemy aircraft, the Hawk, was engaged by the Gripens. According to Lt Col Mathebula, the objective of the air-to-air combat simulation is to kill. He said that in order to participate in this exercise, a lot of training and exercise was required from the pilots. A pilot must have competency in flying as a low-level display fighter pilot, and should also pass not only the wingman but also the flight-leader course. The origin of the 2V1-formation dates back to the 1990s when 2 Squadron was still flying the Cheetah fighter aircrafts. According to Lt Col Mbhokota, the formation was used as a way to showcase the SAAF's air power. The display is a combination of both pilot skill and aircraft manoeuvrability. The 2V1 formation has been performed at most air shows over the past decade, as well as the annual air capability demonstration at the Roodewal weapons range. At least 33 countries attended this year's air show, which has recorded an increase in the number of exhibitors to 450, compared to the previous shows. Among the countries who attended were the USA, China, Germany, Sweden, Nigeria, Zambia, Zimbabwe, UK, Turkey, South Africa, Angola and Pakistan. The Africa Aerospace and Defence Show is one of the world's premier aerospace and defence exhibitions that holds a prominent position on the aviation and defence calendar. Its main purpose is to bring together the aviation industries from throughout the world to showcase the latest innovations within their sectors. The first three days of the exhibitions are traditionally trade days, followed by two airshow days that are open to the public.