The Makhado Police made several drug-related busts last week. The most important was made on 6 October. Undercover police officials, busy with routine patrols, were just about to pull over a blue Nissan sedan to perform a random search of the vehicle. According to the police’s spokesperson, Const Irene Radzilane, the driver decided, however, to speed away. This was close to Jai Jai Jai Auto in Kort Street. The police phoned the charge office to send back-up vehicles to chase after the driver, which led to a high-speed chase. The driver continued north, speeding through a red traffic light at the corner of Krogh and Rissik Street, nearly causing an accident. The police, however, were faster and caught up with the suspect near the entrance to the Golden Fountain tavern and forced him off the road. While searching the vehicle, the police discovered a large quantity of illegal drugs hidden inside. The value of the drugs is estimated to be more than R10 000. Some of the drugs were identified on the crime scene as crystal meth. There were also stacks of small bags that contained a powdery substance believed to be cocaine. The police are still awaiting test results to confirm the exact contents of all the recovered drugs. The driver of the Nissan was arrested and taken to the charge office for further questioning. The suspect, Henry Kaggwa (36), appeared in the Louis Trichardt District Court on Friday. On Monday, he appeared again and his case was struck from the roll after he paid an admission-of-guilt fine. The amount could not be confirmed at the time of our going to press. Two other suspects also appeared on court on Monday on two separate counts of the illegal possession of drugs. Azwitakadzi Mavhungu (30) paid a R200 admission-of-guilt fine, after which he was released. Thomas Mudalahothze (38) pleaded guilty and was sentenced to one month imprisonment or a R500 fine. At the time of our going to press, the newspaper had lodged an enquiry with the Makhado Police to verify this information and to get comment on the fact that the suspects were allowed to make a deal in court, when the drugs found in their possession were worth more than the fine they had to pay. An answer was still forthcoming.